---
layout: post                # Don't change this from "post"
tlitle: Accessibility testing - On client premises         # Title to show on the page
type: a11y                   # Chose from: lab, online, a11y, other, partner
phase: alpha                 # chose from discovery, alpha, beta, live
initials: LH & MK           # initials of person who did/uploaded the research
display_date: 31st Mar 2020 # Date to show on the page
return_url: "https://scotentsd.github.io/international/timeline/" # leave like this - don't change it
type_of_event: Accessibility       # add the type of event if you want it displayed added to the heading when the post is clicked on
                            # Lab Testing, Partner co-creation and co-design, Accessibility, Online research and testing, Events, F2F and testing
                            # or leave empty if not needed
---

**Phase**
- Alpha

**Date and type**
- 31st Mar 2020,  On Premises testing

**What we tested**
-Accessibility of GlobalScot Beta Candidate site


**Who we tested with**
- 5 people with A11y issues
  - 3 Women
  - 2 Men
  - 1 * Mobility Impairment
  - 2 * Sight Impairment
  - 2 * Cognitive Impairment

**What we discovered**
Some accessibility defects have come to our attention during testing of this Beta site. The following defects will be resolved by 18 December 2020:

- The three main cards on the user dashboard will not reflow in a single column when you change the size of the browser window. They give a three button carousel instead. This can be confusing and unexpected
- Line height or spacing of text may not resize as expected as it is stated in pixels
- Live video streams (such as webinars) do not have captions
- You cannot skip to the main content when using a screen reader
- Assistive technology may struggle to distinguish between members of a chat
- Not all links have a description that assistive technology can use
- Some buttons aren’t coded as buttons and don’t have a label, making it difficult for assistive technology to understand what they are
- Some input fields are labelled or coded incorrectly, which could be confusing for assistive technology
- Some content does not get announced when it appears, including new chat notifications,some error messages, some lookup functionality and some pop-up boxes
- Some error messages appear before any information has been entered into the input field
- Input focus is visually difficult to notice as the emphasis style is too subtle. The focus colour uses a mix of CSS and browser defaults. This may cause confusion to users who have set up their browsers to suit their individual need
- The list of sectors given during registration is quite long and may cause reading difficulties
- On the ‘Join the network’ page, the focus order is wrong
- Some pages use incorrect heading hierarchy or skip headings. This may confuse assistive technology
- The combo-box is hard to use for users with limited mobility and has poor usability using screen readers
- The Beta Banner is outside of the “MAIN” landmark and may announce itself inconsistently on different browsers
- The “Back” button will clear previous forms and searches. This is not announced
- The height of posts in the community feed varies depending on how much content it has in it. This may cause difficulty in reading / scanning the page.
- During registration, if a user selects ‘no’ to ‘Is this address correct?’, the ‘yes’ button becomes disabled




**What we discovered**
-
